Mindfire Solutions Case Study

A SaaS APPLICATION ON TEXT MESSAGING
SOLUTIONS – A ColdFusion Case Study

Executive Summary:

A 100% open rate, 98% read rate and 90% response rate is an enviable figure where digital
communication is considered. If you haven’t guessed it already the above statistics are for text
messages. The proliferation of mobile phones all over the world (it is already 100% in the USA) has led to
many brands opting to include text messaging into their digital marketing strategy. Yet another statistics
states that 43% of mobile advertisements prompted brand recall. These statistics confirm the fact that
messages delivered via mobile text advertising are more personal and timelier than any other
advertising medium. The reach of mobile text advertising is even more owing to the ubiquity of mobile
phones as a constant companion in our lives.

And this is precisely our client’s business
plan. Developing a SaaS application on text
messaging solutions that would help various
advertisers effectively reach their target
audience with personal messages in a
timely manner was the top most priority for
them. Additionally this would also help
build a consumer database which could be
analyzed further and contacted accordingly.
As a software services provider they wanted
to leverage on the software technologies
readily available to communicate better
with the target market.

Apparently when the client contacted Mindfire, they had already been through a negative experience
with the previous software vendor. However, the partnership with Mindfire proved to be a fruitful one
and now we are the primary software services provider for the client. They have also expressed interest
in Mindfire’s services when they would want to customize the platform, white label the product and
aggressively market it to other domains.

About the Client:
Client: Mobile Messaging Services Provider
Industry: Marketing and Advertising
Location: USA

Technologies Used:
ColdFusion10, SQL Server 2008, Bootstrap, ChartJS, BaseCamp, jUnit

info@mindfiresolutions.com   www.mindfiresolutions.comMindfire Solutions Case Study

Business Situation:

Our client wanted to stay competitive in the Text Messaging Services Industry that has a significant
share in the Marketing and Advertising campaigns in USA and elsewhere in the world. However, when
they approached Mindfire Solutions their Code was not in the best condition and they had to restart the
servers on a daily basis and there were times when the messaging broadcast would fail randomly.

In this scenario, Mindfire had its task cut and proceeded with a modular approach giving more
weightage to the more pressing issues first.

The Mindfire Solution:

The primary customers of our client were Advertisers who can get distributed Shortcode or they can
own a Shortcode. The Advertiser can set up campaigns for Restaurants, Comedy Clubs, College, Real
Estate etc. They can also set Zip Code location processing for a scheduled Broadcast. The main purpose
of the Campaigns was to give real time notifications to a user about an offer going on, Coupons &
information about the Advertiser’s shop location primarily through Broadcasts or through Response
Messages. The Advertisers also get access to the subscribers’ Name, DOB (date of birth), email, Zip etc.
which helps them to provide the best services.

At Mindfire Solutions, we analyzed the code base which had flaws and did code optimization in every
corner of the application. Our developers wrote approximately 75 stored procedures which had a
capacity to give 5 to 7 resultsets. We used Bootstrap, ChartJS for Admin dashboard without
dependencies on the Base CSS. Most of the queries were replaced by the stored procedures so that
Database hit was managed. The performance of the application improved considerably without having
the client to restart or suffer from a system hanging up while broadcasting.

We faced a challenge for new API integration without support from Service providers. Our developers
worked on a new API for the client which in turn enabled the Advertiser to send test to N numbers, N
different messages in one to one relation. This API was set up using CF Scheduled services and Caching
query result. The Stats, Growth, Summary Reports, Messages Logs and Advertiser Dashboard where set
up so Advertisers and Our Client have a clear picture on Application and Campaigns. Surprise
Redemption Code campaign was set up with having 2 way communications with Advertiser’s
application, which went on for several months with success.

Fetching DOB data collection from Subscriber for giving special offers on birthdays was set up, by using a
list of Regular Expressions to accept any format. The data was achieved with 80% success.  A robust
structure was established for setting up the campaigns so that the Advertiser can limit the number of
outgoing messages, collect the data and send emails in real time. New Mail Chimp, Custom JSON API
was set for sending real time data to Advertisers. Our developers also converted HTTP to SMPP protocol
because the providers had a lot to change on their side. The application stopped after successful
transfer of the Shortcodes. We also applied every New CTIA changes for sending of Messages to
Subscribers.

The application had a unique pass-thru facility to the Advertisers which notifies them as soon as they get
Subscriptions or any information for Campaigns. The various tracking reports were installed to get the
Subscribers List, Growth of Subscribers, Stats given by subscriber and Summary Report for getting

info@mindfiresolutions.com   www.mindfiresolutions.comMindfire Solutions Case Study

response messages that went out from Application for Subscriber messages. The application also had
few API Listeners open so that the Advertiser can send messages without logging in or can manage
broadcast at their end. Base camp was used for Bug tracking and jUnit tool was used by client end for
testing.

Architecture Diagram:

.

Fig 1: The above figure shows the architecture diagram of the Text Messaging Solution

info@mindfiresolutions.com   www.mindfiresolutions.comMindfire Solutions Case Study

How the System works?

Fig 2: The above figure shows the WorkFlow image of the Text Messaging Solution
There were 3 processes which worked behind the application:
1. MO(Mobile Origination): Here the Messages is received by  Subscribers. The message is processed
and marked valid or invalid
2. MT(Mobile Termination): Here the Message Response from Application to Subscribers and
Broadcast set by Advertisers were  handled.
3. Pass Thru: There were many kinds of Pass Thru in the Application. These are used to indicate the
Advertisers in Real time about data received.

Screenshots:
Following are some of the screenshots of various sections of the application:

Screenshot 1: User Dashboard
signifying the various metrics of the
subscriber base

info@mindfiresolutions.com   www.mindfiresolutions.comMindfire Solutions Case Study

Screenshot 2: Short code database
for a particular Advertiser

Screenshot 3: Message Log for the
outbound messages and their

corresponding status.

Screenshot 4: Keywords Database to
increase effectiveness of the text
messaging campaigns.

info@mindfiresolutions.com   www.mindfiresolutions.comMindfire Solutions Case Study

Future Relationship:
This has been one of our long running projects and each year the client was satisfied with the work done
at Mindfire Solutions. They have also referred the services of Mindfire Solutions to their peers and that
has been a rewarding experience. Not only have we added more clients but we also get to work on
various platforms to meet the needs of the client and their customers.

We are also the primary software services provider to the client who is planning to white label the
product as sell it to other organizations across industries.

Developer Speak:

“It was an awesome opportunity to work on this
application. Needless to say, the learning curve never
diminished. The challenges were a learning experience
as huge real time issues were solved with CF and SQL.”

- Ramakrishna Panni

Founded in 1999, Mindfire Solutions is an award-winning provider of
software development and testing services to the global market with
650+ talented software engineers at 3 centers in India. For its people
and its work, Mindfire has won coveted international awards such as
Deloitte Technology Fast50 India Award 2013 and 2014, Dun &
Bradstreet Fastest Growing SME 2013 Award, Red Herring Top 100
Asia Award and Zinnov GSPR 2014. Mindfire has been recognized with
ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 27001:2005 certification, is a continuous
member of NASSCOM, and has established a strong track record of
2000+ projects successfully delivered for 500+ technology clients.
Need help to create a text
messaging solution? Reach out to
us here:
Phone: 1-248-686-1424
Web: www.mindfiresolutions.com
Email: sales@mindfiresolutions.com

© 2015 Mindfire Solutions | www.mindfiresolutions.com

info@mindfiresolutions.com   www.mindfiresolutions.com