Learning Robotic Process
Automation

$SFBUF4PGUXBSFSPCPUTBOEBVUPNBUFCVTJOFTTQSPDFTTFT
XJUIUIFMFBEJOH31"UPPMa6J1BUI

Alok Mani Tripathi

BIRMINGHAM - MUMBAILearning Robotic Process Automation
Copyright b 2018 Packt Publishing
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form
or by any means, without the prior written permission of the publisher, except in the case of brief quotations
embedded in critical articles or reviews.
Every effort has been made in the preparation of this book to ensure the accuracy of the information presented.
However, the information contained in this book is sold without warranty, either express or implied. Neither the
author, nor Packt Publishing or its dealers and distributors, will be held liable for any damages caused or alleged to
have been caused directly or indirectly by this book.
Packt Publishing has endeavored to provide trademark information about all of the companies and products
mentioned in this book by the appropriate use of capitals. However, Packt Publishing cannot guarantee the accuracy
of this information.
Commissioning Editor: Kunal Chaudhari
Acquisition Editor: Noyonika Das
Content Development Editor: Roshan Kumar
Technical Editor: Harshal Kadam
Copy Editor: Safis Editing
Project Coordinator: Hardik Bhinde
Proofreader: Safis Editing
Indexer: Mariammal Chettiyar
Graphics: Jason Monteiro
Production Coordinator: Nilesh Mohite
First published: March 2018
Production reference: 1270318
Published by Packt Publishing Ltd.
Livery Place
35 Livery Street
Birmingham
B3 2PB, UK.
ISBN 978-1-78847-094-0

XXXQBDLUQVCDPNNBQUJP

Mapt is an online digital library that gives you full access to over 5,000 books and videos, as
well as industry leading tools to help you plan your personal development and advance
your career. For more information, please visit our website.

Why subscribe?
Spend less time learning and more time coding with practical eBooks and Videos
from over 4,000 industry professionals
Improve your learning with Skill Plans built especially for you
Get a free eBook or video every month
Mapt is fully searchable
Copy and paste, print, and bookmark content

PacktPub.com
Did you know that Packt offers eBook versions of every book published, with PDF and
ePub files available? You can upgrade to the eBook version at XXX1BDLU1VCDPN and as a
print book customer, you are entitled to a discount on the eBook copy. Get in touch with us
at TFSWJDF!QBDLUQVCDPN for more details.
At XXX1BDLU1VCDPN, you can also read a collection of free technical articles, sign up for a
range of free newsletters, and receive exclusive discounts and offers on Packt books and
eBooks.Contributors

About the author
Alok Mani Tripathi is the founder of RPATech (RPATech.in), which is a leading end-to-
end consulting and services company with a focus on RPA and AI. He is an early adopter of
RPA and has been connected with various RPA tools providers and analysts. He has trained
200+ people on different RPA platforms. Alok has created and led multiple RPA Center of
Excellence (CoE) for global organizations with a clear focus on cognitive and service
delivery automation. He is a long-time contributor to the RPA community and maintains a
community group with a huge following on LinkedIn.