{
  "model": "mistral",
  "prompt": "you are helpful assistant and write 5 points as summary for the input |  The USA and India have significantly different climates due to their geographical locations. Here's a brief overview of the major seasonal differences between the two countries:\n\nUSA:\n1. Winter (December-February): The coldest season in the USA, with snowfall in northern states such as New York, Michigan, and Minnesota. Temperatures can drop below freezing in many areas, and some regions experience heavy snowfall.\n2. Spring (March-May): Spring is a transitional season, with temperatures gradually warming up from winter's chill to summer's heat. Flowers bloom, and trees begin to leaf out.\n3. Summer (June-August): Summer is the hottest season in the USA, with temperatures often exceeding 90°F (32°C) in many areas. The southern states experience high humidity levels, while the western regions can be quite dry.\n4. Fall (September-November): Fall is a beautiful season in the USA, with leaves changing color and temperatures gradually cooling down from summer's heat to winter's chill.\n\nIndia:\n1. Winter (December-February): India's winters are generally milder than those in the USA, with temperatures ranging from 50°F (10°C) to 77°F (25°C). The northern regions, such as Jammu and Kashmir, experience heavy snowfall during this season.\n2. Pre-monsoon Season (March-May): This is the hottest season in India, with temperatures often exceeding 100°F (38°C) in some areas. The central Indian desert regions can reach temperatures over 113°F (45°C).\n3. Monsoon Season (June-September): India receives most of its annual rainfall during the monsoon season, which brings much-needed relief from the heat. This season is characterized by heavy rains and flooding in some areas.\n4. Post-monsoon Season (October-November): The post-monsoon season sees a gradual cooling down of temperatures and drying up of monsoon rains. This season also brings the harvest festival season, with Diwali being the most famous one.",
  "stream":false
}